Hello.
In this course, we will review
a range of MongoDB capabilities
using a variety of tools.
We hope that using
these tools will
help better visualize
new concepts
and allow you to work with
data in different ways.
Here, we will introduce you to
MongoDB Atlas, MongoDB Compass,
and the Mongo Shell.
While we won't dive deeply
into each of these tools,
by the end of the course, you
will have enough knowledge
to continue exploring
MongoDB either independently
or with our other MongoDB
university courses.
Let's start with Atlas.
MongoDB Atlas is a platform
that provides an interface
to manage and deploy MongoDB
across cloud providers
and regions.
It was built to launch and
manage your deployments
for you, which simplifies the
operational overhead of running
a deployment.
This type of offering is
called database as a service.
What that means is that
Atlas helps you easily
setup and manage your database
from your Atlas account
on the web.
There are multiple tiers
of Atlas subscriptions.
And for this course, we
will be using the free tier
subscription to set up a
database, view and modify data.
The free tier allows you to
experiment with the platform
at no cost to you.
We will cover Atlas in more
detail later in this chapter.
Another tool that will be
heavily used in this course
is called Compass.
Compass provides a
graphical user interface
that allows you to explore
the data in your database.
It is a great tool to get
a quick view of the shape
and state of your data,
as well as test out
MongoDB features
as you are learning
about the database
and its functionality.
You can use Compass to
optimize query performance
and manage indexes,
among other things.
The interface that you
will see on your machine
may differ from the one that
you see in later lectures.
There has been a number
of updates to Compass
since those lessons
were recorded,
but all the labs have
been updated accordingly.
Finally, we will
be using the Mongo
Shell, which is an
interactive JavaScript
interface to MongoDB.
You do not need
to know JavaScript
to proceed with this course.
Here, you will learn how to
connect your Atlas instance,
query and update data
using the Mongo Shell,
as well as import a data set
into your own Atlas cluster.
This is the third and
last tool that we will use
to interact with your database.
The Mongo Shell is
great for playing around
with all the features that
the database has to offer,
and really learning
about MongoDB
query language
and functionality.
The following lectures
and labs in this chapter
will walk you through
installing all three
tools that are required
to complete this course.
Please keep in mind that
some of the lectures
may have an outdated
campus or Atlas interface,
or show fewer data
sets in the database.
This will not
impede your ability
to complete the course since
the labs have been updated
accordingly and the tools still
have the functionality that you
will be learning about.
Finally, please
check the lecture
notes that are located
under the videos
as you are going through
the course material.